ﾉﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｻ
ｺ                                                                           ｺ
ｺ                                 EGA TREK                                  ｺ
ｺ                      Version 2.31 February 18, 1991                       ｺ
ｺ                                                                           ｺ
ｺ                              Nels Anderson                                ｺ
ｺ                             92 Bishop Drive                               ｺ
ｺ                        Framingham, MA 01701-6540                          ｺ
ｺ                                                                           ｺ
ﾈﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｼ




       Star Trek was one of the first computer games ever written.  The
       first versions were written for mini and mainframe computers back
       in the early 1970's.  There have probably been more versions of
       this game written than any other as there is probably at least
       one version around for every type of computer ever made.  This
       game is definitely a classic.
  
       The version you now have is related to the other versions in its
       basic game play, but fully takes advantage of the high resolution
       of the EGA display.  I originally discovered the game around 1974
       running on a DEC System 10 mini and was soon hooked.  I've since
       written several other versions of the game for computers
       including the Timex-Sinclair ZX81, Apple ][, Prime 50-series
       minis and MS-DOS machines, all using BASIC of one sort or
       another.
  
       This game requires a PCompatible with an EGA card/monitor.  There
       seems to be a real shortage of games that take advantage of the
       full EGA capabilities (640x350, 16 colors).  This is my second
       EGA game; the first one, known as "Mah Jongg" has been out since
       mid-1987 and has received a gratifying response.  (If you don't
       have "Mah Jongg" and would like a copy, I'll be happy to mail one
       in exchange for the $15 registration fee.)  If you're still
       running an older display adapter that doesn't support EGA I'm
       afraid you're out of luck running this particular game.  I'm sure
       you can find a version that supports your system though.
  
       SHAREWARE
  
       EGATrek is distributed under the "shareware" concept, also known
       as "user-supported software".  Under this concept, you save the
       high cost of packaging and distribution while still receiving
       high quality software.  You are free, and in fact encouraged, to
       distribute this software to your friends, to BBS's and to user
       groups.  Companies that provide software duplication services may
       include EGATrek in their catalog and provide copies for a
       reasonable duplication fee.  All copies must include the files
       "trek.exe", "trek.doc", "trek.ref", "orderfrm.txt" and "egatrek.txt".
       You are not allowed to modify the files in any way, and this
       shareware notice must be kept intact.  The author retains all
       other rights to the program.
  
       Under the shareware concept you are encouraged to register with
       the author for any program that you continue to use.  For a
       registration fee of $15 or more I'll send you a copy of the latest
       version of the game and answer any questions you might have.  I
       will also try to answer questions from non-registered users if
       they include a self-addressed stamped envelope with which to
       reply.
  
       I'd be happy to hear of any improvements you'd like to see, as
       well as any bug reports.  Many of the new features since the
       original version of the game came about as suggestions from users.
  
       When registering, or writing for any reason, please include the
       following:
  
           *  EGATrek revision (this information is at the top of
              the title screen)
           *  where you obtained your copy from
           *  a description of your system  
           *  your full name and address
  
       If you have any suggestions or discover any problems with the
       program you can reach me via the )(evious BBS system (300/1200/
       2400/9600-HST, 8N1) at 508-875-3618 or 617-449-7322.  Leave a
       C)omment to the sysop to reach me.  )(evious is the official
       support BBS for all my software and the latest versions are
       always available for downloading there.  )(evious is also a
       member of RelayNet so if you use a local BBS that is also on
       RelayNet you can mail me by sending a routed message to node
       XEVIOUS.  The Shareware conference is the preferred place to
       do this.


       I'm also available through CompuServe's mail system.  Send mail
       to me at 71020,2613, or join me and other authors in the 
       Shareware forum (GO SHAREWARE).  You can also reach me through
       InterNet at address 71020.2613@compuserve.com.




       CHANGES IN V2.31:


           o  Several bug fixes related to saved games
           o  Updates to documentation


       CHANGES IN V2.3:


           o  The previous version had a serious problem in loading
              saved games which has now been fixed


       CHANGES IN V2.2:


           o  Replays allowed
           o  Expanded help screens
           o  Added rank names to rank numbers in hall of fame, etc.
           o  Long range scanner/galaxy chart now operates automatically
           o  New repair status chart on screen at all times
           o  Bug fixes


       CHANGES IN V2.1:


           o  Boss Mode replaced with shell to DOS
           o  MAX command added
           o  Saved games now have default file name available
           o  Several minor bug fixes


       CHANGES IN V2.0:


           o  Klingons are generally tougher
           o  New Klingon ship types
           o  Klingons have some other new abilities
           o  MINE and LOAD commands replaced by LAND and USE
           o  Additional random occurances
           o  FIX command enhanced to allow fixing specific devices
           o  Games can be saved by file name
           o  Top two scores for each level saved in Hall of Fame
           o  Move command and coordinates can be entered together
           o  Warp command and warp factor can be entered together
           o  Phaser temperature/efficiency graph on screen
           o  MSGS command replays most recent messages
           o  Viewer shows closest enemy ship instead of closest object
           o  Successful rescues increase score
           o  Klingon phasers shown on short range scanner
           o  Black holes
           o  Enemy ships can be scanned using INFO command
           o  Death Ray weapon




ﾉﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｻ
ｺ                          EGATREK QUICK START                              ｺ
ﾈﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｼ




       If you're already familiar with this type of game and just need
       enough information to get started, here it is...


           Start up the game from DOS command level by typing "TREK".


           When the title screen comes up hit any key to go on.


           You will first be asked if you want a briefing or not.
           Your choice...


           The "command level" you select determines the difficulty of the
           game.  Unless you've never played this type of game before skip
           level 1 and possibly level 2.


           Once the game starts up, use F1 to view the command list as
           needed.




ﾉﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｻ
ｺ                                 BRIEFING                                  ｺ
ﾈﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｼ




       The Organian Peace Treaty of 3199.5 has collapsed and the
       Federation is now at war with the Klingon Empire.  As a result, a
       Klingon invasion fleet is now present in parts of Federation
       territory.  A large number of Klingon cruisers, a few command
       vessels and a Klingon starbase have been observed.  The Romulan
       Star Empire has joined the hostilities though their presence is
       rather limited.  It is possible that you will run into their
       ships when near Romulan territory, though their actions in
       response to your contact are unpredictable.
  
       You will be in command of the Constitution Class Heavy Cruiser
       U.S.S.  ENTERPRISE, naval construction contract number NCC-1701.
       It is fully battle ready and contains 430 officers and crew
       members.
  
       Your mission as commander of the Enterprise is to secure a 64
       quadrant section of the galaxy as quickly as possible.  You will
       have to destroy any Klingon vessels you find, including normal
       Klingon battle cruisers, command vessels and possibly other types
       as well.  Depending on the command level (your military rank)
       that you enter when starting you will be given a more or less
       difficult section.  In general, higher levels must contend with
       more enemy ships and with more abilities and phenomena in the
       enemy.  Success in your mission may earn you a promotion to a
       higher rank.


       Ranks are as follows:


              Level Number    Name of Rank
              ------------    ------------
                   1          Lieutenant Commander
                   2          Commander
                   3          Captain
                   4          Commodore
                   5          Admiral


       Any officer in command of a ship may be referred to as captain
       regardless of his actual rank.
  
       The Enterprise has a cruising speed of up to warp factor 6, and
       is allowed warp 8 in emergencies.  The main engines are for
       moving between quadrants of the galaxy.  Beware of excessive
       speed as damage to the engines is a possible result.  Within a
       quadrant, you have the use of impulse engines.  If your main
       engines are damaged your maximum warp speed will be lower than
       normal.  Travel at warp speeds with the shields raised requires
       double the normal amount of energy.
  
       All energy is provided by the Matter/Anti-Matter Converter
       (M/A-M).  The energy conversion system is normally adequate to
       supply all needed power for many years of operation.  However,
       war with the Klingons is hardly normal operations.  Because the
       ship is moving more often than normal and using a great deal of
       energy to fire phasers and provide shielding you will most likely
       be using energy faster than you can regenerate it.  The M/A-M
       will supply 400 units of energy per stardate when working at
       100%.
    
       The ship is provided with two types of scanners.  The short range
       scanners show you everything in your current quadrant.  Because
       of their importance they continue scanning at all times and the
       display is always available and up to date.  The most important
       thing you will see is, of course, Klingon ships of which there
       are several types.  Standard Klingon battleships will display in
       light blue, command ships in red, scout ships in purple and
       supply ships in green.


       Your long range scanners show what is in adjacent quadrants and
       thus are very useful for planning your movements.  The ships
       computer keeps a record of all past scans and this galaxy chart
       is shown at all times unless the computer is damaged.  Damage
       to the scanners will affect their performance of course.  A
       small amount of damage will prevent them from seeing smaller
       objects (including, unfortunately, Klingons) but they may still
       be able to see stars.  If damage becomes too severe they will
       fail to work at all.


       The long range display is numerical; the three digit number for
       each quadrant represents the number of Klingons, type of
       Federation base, and number of stars (respectively) that the
       scanners have found.  Quadrants containing Klingons are
       highlighted in red.  Bases are highlighted in orange and the
       number indicates base type (1 is a StarBase, 2 a research
       station and 3 a supply depot).  Quadrants with supernovas cause
       the scanners to overload and display all 9's.
  
       You also receive information through the main viewer.  This
       display alternates between a view from outside the ship and a
       graphical display of some ship function.  When looking outside
       the ship the viewer always looks in the direction of whatever
       enemy ship is closest to your ship.  The view includes an
       identification of the object and its relative distance and
       direction from the ship.  Directions are based on 0 degrees being
       directly to the right as seen on scanner displays.
  
       The graphical displays appearing on the viewer can be more or
       less useful depending on what's currently going on.  Some of the
       displays are not of much use to a ships commander however.


       You will constantly be receiving communications from both inside
       and outside your ship.  Each message will include the ships
       department that originated it.  It is important that you pay
       attention to all incoming messages.  Up to four messages can be
       displayed on your command console at a time.  Each new message
       will overwrite the oldest existing message or you can acknowledge
       one or all messages and so leave space for new ones.
  
       A heavy cruiser has two major weapons available, photon torpedos
       (PhoTorps) and phasers.  Torpedos are very effective at close
       range, with a single torpedo being capable of destroying a
       standard Klingon ship.  However, you are limited in the number of
       torpedos you can carry and they can only be replenished at a
       StarBase or supply station.  At longer distances they are less
       effective and their accuracy is also thrown off when fired with
       your shields raised.


       Phasers are your general purpose weapon.  The damage phasers do
       is highly influenced by distance to the target.  There are two
       gauges that monitor phaser performance.  You should watch the
       phaser temperature gauge when firing to prevent overheating.  The
       phaser effectiveness gauge shows how well the phasers are
       working.  Phaser effectiveness goes down due to excess heat and
       due to damage from enemy fire.
  
       The ship is capable of repulsing enemy fire through the use of
       its shields.  When the shields are raised and at 100% energy no
       enemy fire will penetrate them; the only effect will be that
       energy will drain from the shields.  It is thus to your advantage
       to have shields raised when in direct battle.  Once enemy fire
       starts to penetrate the shields main energy is lost and ships
       systems may be damaged.  Raising the shields draws a small amount
       of energy from the main energy banks so you do not want to raise
       the shields needlessly.  Lowering shields causes no energy
       change.  Because the shields affect the performance of other
       ships systems their correct usage is very important to the
       success of your mission.
  
       The Enterprise was originally used for exploration and is well
       suited for this purpose.  Obviously, with the Federation under
       attack there is no time for normal exploration at the present.
       However, there are planets in the galaxy that may contain the
       dilithium crystals used to power the ship and it is worth
       exploring these planets for emergency crystal supplies.  Note,
       though, that Federation regulations prohibit the use of raw
       dilithium except in extreme emergencies; your shields must be
       under 50% and main energy under 20%.


       There are several types of Federation bases in space.  A StarBase
       is the most useful because you can replenish all ships supplies
       there.  Supply stations can provide life support supplies and
       photon torpedos.  Research stations can provide only life support
       supplies.  You are responsible for the protection of all bases in
       your designated area.


       During warfare many of the ships systems may be damaged.  The
       effects of damage on your mission can vary greatly depending on
       what systems are affected:
  
       M/A-M Converter: The Matter/Anti-Matter converter generates
         energy for the ship at a rate of 400 units/day times percentage
         of repair.
       Shields: The shields percentage of repair indicates how
         efficiently the shield generators can convert the energy
         available in the shield system into actual shielding of the ship.
       Warp Engines: The warp engines are virtually impossible to
         destroy completely, but their level of damage affects the maximum
         possible warp speed.  The maximum warp speed is approximately
         warp 1 plus 0.09 times percentage of repair.
       Impulse Engines: Impulse engines are much simpler than warp
         engines; they either work or they don't.  When they are at less
         than 50% they simply stop functioning.
       Phasers: Phaser percentage of repair is a direct indication of
         what percentage of energy is converted to destructive force at
         the point of impact.  In other words, for a given level of phaser
         energy, 100% working phasers will do twice the damage of 50%
         working phasers.
       PhoTorp Tubes: Like impulse engines, photorp tubes either work or
         they don't.  At 100% there are three function tubes, 67-99% only
         two tubes work and 34-66% only one. 
       Short Range Scanners: Short range scanners lose resolution when
         they are damaged.  Above 90% they are fully functional, but below
         90% they are unable to detect anything smaller than a star.
         Below 50% they do not function at all.
       Long Range Scanners: Long range scanners also lose resolution
         when damaged.  When less than 100% repaired they can no longer
         detect enemy ships.  Below 50% they are not functional.
       Computer: A modern starship is highly computerized, so loss of
         computer function affects a number of things.  Portions of the
         ships charts can be lost if the computer is sufficiently damaged
         and can only be recovered by re-scanning.  Automatic navigation
         requires the computer to be 100% repaired.  Charts cannot be
         viewed unless the computer is 100%.
       Life Support: Life support systems must be 100% to generate food
         and oxygen needed to sustain life.  Without a functioning life
         support system the ship can last only two days on reserves.
       Transporter:  The transporter must be at 100% to be used.
       Shuttlecraft:  The shuttlecraft must be at 100% to be used.


       When your mission ends, one way or another, you'll receive a
       detailed evaluation of your performance from headquarters.  If
       you get one of the top two scores for your command level, your
       name will be entered in the hall of fame.  If you wish to delete
       the hall of fame simply delete the file trek.scr.




ﾉﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｻ
ｺ                                 COMMANDS                                  ｺ
ﾈﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｼ




       To start the game, enter "trek" from the DOS prompt.  If you do
       not want sound during the game, enter "trek -n"; note that the
       space before the dash is required.


       The following is a list of commands and their description.  Most
       commands can be abbreviated to just their first letter.  Use the
       "HELP" command at any time to get the list of commands and their
       abbreviations.
  
         A#:
              To acknowledge a message you should enter the letter A
              immediately followed by the number of the message you wish
              to acknowledge, i.e. A2.  Messages are numbered from 1 to 4
              going from top to bottom.  To acknowledge all messages enter
              just A without a number.
  
         DOCK:
              You will need to visit StarBases often to refuel your ship
              as well as to make repairs.  When you are in a sector
              directly adjacent to a StarBase, issue this command.  You
              can also dock at Research Stations and Supply Bases, but
              they cannot provide everything that a StarBase can.  When
              docked at a StarBase its shields will protect your ship from
              enemy phasers.
  
         ENERGY:
              Energy is used by a number of different systems aboard the
              ship and you can use this command to move energy between
              systems as needed.  It will also show you the exact energy
              levels of all systems.
  
         FIX:
              Engineering has a certain number of crewmen available to do
              repairs on damaged systems and they normally divide their
              time evenly among all damaged systems.  Since some systems
              are more important than others you can use this command to
              concentrate repairs on one system at the expense of other
              systems.  When the system you selected is repaired, repair
              work will automatically be divided AMONG all damaged
              systems once again.


              In addition, you will be asked if you want to spend time
              just making repairs.  In space, repairs will take place no
              faster than normal.  If docked at a StarBase you can use
              their facilities to speed repairs.
       
              Relative repair speeds are as follows:
       
                1x    Normal repairs, work evenly divided AMONG systems
                2.5x  Normal repairs while docked at a starbase
                3x    Repairing only a selected system
                5x    Repairing a selected system while docked at a starbase
  
         HAIL:
              Use this command to hail a StarBase.  If none is close by,
              it will take some time to receive a reply.


         HELP:
              Use this command to get a list of all available commands and
              their abbreviations.
  
         INFO:
              This command allows you to get information about the enemy
              ships in the present quadrant from the computer.  The
              display will show the ship type, location, distance and
              heading from you, and the condition of its shields.


         LAND:
              If you are orbiting a planet which has something of
              interest on it you can use this command to land on the
              planet.  You have the option of using the transporter or
              shuttlecraft to reach the planet.  Normally the transporter
              is the better choice since the shuttlecraft takes 0.2
              stardays to make the round trip whereas the transporter is
              virtually instantaneous.


              To use this command, you must first successfully use the
              ORBIT command.
  
         MAX:
              This command diverts the maximum possible amount of power
              to the ship's main shields.  You can do the same thing with
              the E)nergy command by transferring power to the shields
              until they are at 2500.  This command is a quick way to 
              make sure that your shields are at full strength.


         MOVE:
              This ship is quite sophisticated, so getting from one place
              to another requires only that you specify where you want to
              go.  The galaxy is divided into 64 quadrants and each
              quadrant is divided into 64 sectors.  You need only to
              specify the quadrant and sector you wish to move to; for
              example 6,2,3,5 moves you to quadrant 6,2 sector 3,5.
              Vertical coordinates are always entered first.  To use
              impulse power to move within a quadrant specify only the
              sector you wish to move to (i.e. 3,5).
  
              If the navigation computer is damaged, however, you will
              have to calculate movements manually.  You will be asked
              first for a DeltaX (vertical) movement which can be
              negative, positive or zero.  The number before the decimal
              point is the number of quadrants to move, and the number
              after the decimal point the number of sectors.  Both digits
              must be in the range 0 to 7.  The DeltaY (horizontal)
              movement works the same way.  For example, if you want to
              move one quadrant down and two quadrants plus two sectors
              left (i.e., from 1,8,1,8 to 2,6,1,6) DeltaX would be 1.0
              and DeltaY would be -2.2.  If you prefer using this method
              even when the computer is functional, enter just an "M" when
              asked for the coordinates and the computer will switch
              movement entry to manual.
  
              If you prefer, you can enter the move coordinates without
              anything separating them.  For example, 6,2,3,5 is
              equivalent to 6235 and 3,5 is equivalent to 35.  When using
              the long form, you can use whatever is most convenient for
              separators between the numbers.


              For an even more abbreviated way of entering move
              coordinates, enter them right on the initial command line
              along with the "M".  For example, use m6235 for quadrant 6,2
              sector 3,5 or use m35 to move to sector 3,5 within the
              current quadrant.  When using this method do not use any
              spaces, commas, etc. to separate the "m" and the coordinate
              numbers.


         MSGS:
              Often during a heated battle messages will come for you so
              fast that it's possible to miss some of them.  You can use
              this command to review the most recent messages that have
              appeared.


         ORBIT:
              Use this command to enter a standard orbit around a planet.
              This will allow the planet to be scanned for the presence of
              dilithium crystals and other things.  Once in orbit, you can
              use the LAND command to visit the planet surface.
  
         PHASERS:
              Use this command to fire the phaser banks.  The phaser
              control officer will request instructions on firing at each
              enemy vessel in the quadrant.


         QUIT:
              Use this command to quit the game.  You can also save a game
              before you quit; see the SAVE command.
  
         RAY:
              This command fires the experimental death ray.  This is a
              very powerful weapon that will destroy every enemy ship in
              the whole quadrant...if it works.  If it doesn't work,
              there's no telling what may happen, since the technology is
              not yet completely understood.


         REPAIR:
              This command is a request to engineering to provide the
              state of repair of all ship systems.  Any systems that are
              damaged will include an estimated time to repair.
  
         SAVE:
              You can save your game so that you can come back and
              continue it later.  After saving, the game continues until
              you give the quit command.  You can only restore a saved
              game when first starting up; you will be asked if you want
              to restore a saved game right after you are asked if you
              want a briefing.  You select the name of the file that is to
              contain the saved game information.  Any valid MS-DOS file
              name can be used; just hit <Enter> to use the default name
              "trek.sav".
  
         SELF:
              If the situation becomes hopeless, use this command to self-
              destruct.  With any luck, you will at least take a few
              Klingons along with you.
  
         SHUP:
              This command raises the shields.  Engineering will
              acknowledge when the shields are up, and the image of the
              ship on the short range scanner will change to yellow.  You
              can also use the up arrow key to issue this command.
  
         SHDN:
              This command lowers the shields.  Engineering will
              acknowledge, and the image of the ship on the short range
              scanner will return to white.  You can also use the down
              arrow key for this command.
  
         SND:
              Use this command at any time during the game to toggle sound
              on and off.  A message will flash briefly on the screen
              acknowledging the command.


         TORPEDO:
              You have three torpedo tubes available.  The torpedo control
              officer will request instructions on the number of torpedos
              to fire and the sectors to fire them at.
  
         USE:
              Any miscellaneous objects that you find during the game,
              such as dilithium crystals mined from planets, can be used
              with this command.


         WARP:
              Use this command to inform engineering of the warp speed you
              require from the engines when moving between quadrants.
              Invalid warp speeds will be ignored.


              If you wish, you can include the warp factor on the command
              line.  For example, enter w5.2 to set the warp factor to
              5.2.
  
         BOSS:
              Argh!  The boss is coming, and he's going to catch you
              playing games again.  Hit Shift-F1 and you shell to MS-DOS.
              You can now do simple MS-DOS commands, but be careful that
              you do not run anything that changes the screen mode as
              when you return to EGATrek you must still be in graphics
              mode to be able to continue the game.  Simple commands like
              DIR should work fine.  When you're ready to return to the
              game, type 'EXIT'.  (If you *are* the boss, you didn't see
              this command; it's hidden by a Romulan cloaking device.)




ﾉﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｻ
ｺ                              FUNCTION KEYS                                ｺ
ﾈﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｼ




       Some of the more commonly used commands have been bound to the
       function keys.  Use the following chart as a reference:
  
  
         ﾚﾄF1ﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾂﾄF2ﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄｿ 
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ｳ  Help   ｳ Phasers ｳ
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ﾃﾄF3ﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾅﾄF4ﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄｴ
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ｳ  Fire   ｳ  Move   ｳ
         ｳ Torpedo ｳ  Ship   ｳ
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ﾃﾄF5ﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾅﾄF6ﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄｴ
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ｳ   Max   ｳ   Fix   ｳ
         ｳ  Energy ｳ Systems ｳ
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ﾃﾄF7ﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾅﾄF8ﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄｴ
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ｳ   Xfer  ｳ  Repair ｳ
         ｳ  Energy ｳ  Status ｳ
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ﾃﾄF9ﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾅﾄF10ﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄｴ
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ｳ   Set   ｳ  Dock   ｳ
         ｳ  Speed  ｳ         ｳ
         ｳ         ｳ         ｳ
         ﾀﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾁﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾄﾙ




ﾉﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｻ
ｺ                               REGISTRATION                                ｺ
ﾈﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｼ


       Please remember that EGATrek is not free software.  As with all
       Shareware you are expected to purchase it after you've given it
       a reasonable trial.


       The registration price for EGATrek is $15, for which you'll
       receive by return mail a copy of the latest version, and possibly
       another Shareware game to try out.


       Several other games are available from the same author.  If you
       register more than one game at the same time, a discount is
       available.  Register the first game for $15 and then each additional
       game is only $10.  For example,


                 $15 to register EGATrek
                 $25 to register EGATrek plus one other game
                 $35 to register EGATrek and two other games
                     etc.


       Games currently available include Shooting Gallery, Mah Jongg,
       CIPHER, SuperFly and BassMap.


       A deluxe version of EGATrek is also available.  This includes a
       storage case, printed manual, quick reference card, plus the
       registered version of the game.  This version is available for
       $22.  No discount is available on this version.


       Please include $2 for shipping/handling along with the payment
       for whatever items you order; if ordering deluxe versions please
       include $4.  Outside North America please include $4 for shipping/
       handling.




ﾉﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｻ
ｺ                               LEGAL STUFF                                 ｺ
ﾈﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｼ


       The author hereby disclaims all warranties relating to this product,
       whether express or implied, including without limitation any implied
       warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. The
       author cannot and will not be liable for any special, incidental,
       consequential, indirect or similar damages due to loss of data or any
       other reason, even if the author or an authorized agent has been
       advised of the possibility of such damages.  In no event shall the
       liability for any damages ever exceed the price paid for the license
       to use software, regardless of the form and/or extent of the claim.
       The user of this program bears all risk as to the quality and
       performance of the software.




ﾉﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｻ
ｺ                 ASSOCIATION OF SHAREWARE PROFESSIONALS                    ｺ
ﾈﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｼ


       This software is produced by Nels Anderson who is a member of the
       Association of Shareware Professionals (ASP).  ASP wants to make sure
       that the shareware principle works for you.  If you are unable to
       resolve a shareware-related problem with an ASP member by contacting
       the member directly, ASP may be able to help.


       The ASP Ombudsman can help you resolve a dispute or problem with an
       ASP member, but does not provide technical support for members'
       products.  Please write to the ASP Ombudsman at 545 Grover Road,
       Muskegon, MI 49442, USA or send a CompuServe message via email to
       ASP Ombudsman 70007,3536.


                             _______
                        ____|__     |               (R)
                     --|       |    |-------------------
                       |   ____|__  |  Association of
                       |  |       |_|  Shareware
                       |__|   o   |    Professionals
                     -----|   |   |---------------------
                          |___|___|    MEMBER




ﾉﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｻ
ｺ                          LIVE LONG AND PROSPER!                           ｺ
ﾈﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍﾍｼ




  EGATrek is copyright (c) 1988-1991 by Nels Anderson.  All rights reserved.
